# goaudit

#### Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
1. [Setup - The basics of getting started with goaudit](#setup)
    * [What goaudit affects](#what-goaudit-affects)
    * [Setup requirements](#setup-requirements)
    * [Beginning with goaudit](#beginning-with-goaudit)
1. [Usage - Configuration options and additional functionality](#usage)
1. [Reference - An under-the-hood peek at what the module is doing and how](#reference)
1. [Limitations - OS compatibility, etc.](#limitations)
1. [Development - Guide for contributing to the module](#development)

## Description

This module allows you to manage [Go-Audit](https://github.com/slackhq/go-audit) using Puppet.

## Setup

### What goaudit affects

The module manages package, service and configuration files for Go-Audit.

The package name is assumed to be `goaudit`, via the default package provider for your system. It is
assumed that such a package exists. This assumption may not hold true for your platform as-is, and
you may need to provide such a package yourself. The module does not contain logic for installing
Go-Audit by any other method.

### Setup Requirements

The module depends on the [Datacat](https://github.com/richardc/puppet-datacat) module for composing
the Go-Audit YAML config file.

### Beginning with goaudit

To install Go-Audit with a default configuration:

```
class { '::goaudit': }
```

## Usage

### Manage rules

```
goaudit::rule { 'TLS private key access' :
  order   => 50,
  comment => 'Reads, writes and attribute changes on TLS private keys',
  content => [
    '-w /etc/ssl/private/foo.key -p rwa -k tls-key-access',
    '-w /etc/ssl/private/bar.key -p rwa -k tls-key-access',
  ]
}
```

### Manage filters

```
goaudit::filter { 'reduce the number of connect syscall events being logged':
  syscall      => 49,      # bind
  message_type => 1306,    # AUDIT_SOCKADDR
  # 0200....7F - ipv4 on any port to 127.x.x.x
  # 01 - local/unix domain sockets
  regex        => 'saddr=(0200....7F|01)'
}

```

## Reference

### Classes

#### `goaudit`

##### `package_name`

Sets the name of the Go-Audit package.

Default value: `go-audit`.

##### `package_ensure`

Whether the Go-Audit package resource should be present.

Valid values: `present`, `absent`.

Default value: `present`.

##### `config_file`

The filesystem path to the Go-Audit config file.

Valid values: an absolute file path on the target system.

Default value: `/etc/go-audit.yaml`.

##### `service_name`

Overrides the Go-Audit service name. May be required depending on what the package provides.

Default value: `go-audit`

##### `service_enable`

Specifies whether the service should be enabled.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `true`.

##### `service_ensure`

The service state that should be ensured.

Valid values: `stopped`, `running`.

Default value: `running`.

##### `events_min`

Lower bound of range of audit type codes of events to capture.

Default value: `1300`

##### `events_max`

Upper bound of range of audit type codes of events to capture.

Default value: `1399`

##### `message_tracking_enabled`

Whether to track messages and identify if any were missed.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `true`

##### `message_tracking_log_ooo`

Whether to log out-of-orderness. These messages typically signify an overloading system.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `false`

##### `message_tracking_max_ooo`

Maximum out of orderness before a missed sequence is presumed dropped.

Default value: `500`

##### `output_stdout_enabled`

Whether to log Go-Audit program output to stdout.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `true`

##### `output_stdout_attempts`

Total number of attempts to write to stdout before considering giving up.
If a write fails, Go-Audit will sleep for 1 second before retrying.

Valid values: positive integers

Default value: `3`

##### `output_syslog_enabled`

Whether to log Go-Audit program output to syslog.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `false`

##### `output_syslog_attempts`

Total number of attempts to write to Syslog before considering giving up.
If a write fails, Go-Audit will sleep for 1 second before retrying.

Valid values: positive integers

Default value: `5`

##### `output_syslog_network`

The type of socket over which to communicate with Syslog.

Valid values: see `network` in Golang's `net.Dial`: https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial

Default value: `unixgram`

##### `output_syslog_address`

The remote address over which to connect to Syslog. Can be a filesystem path, IP address, hostname.

Valid values: see `address` in Golang's `net.Dial`: https://golang.org/pkg/net/#Dial

Default value: `/dev/log`

##### `output_syslog_priority`

Sets the facility and severity for all Syslog events generated by Go-Audit.

Default value: `129` (maps to `local0 | emerg`)

See any Syslog priority matrix reference material for details on calculating this value, e.g.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog

##### `output_syslog_tag`

A tag to apply to Syslog messages generated by Go-Audit. Typically this is the name of the program
generating the message. The PID of the process is automatically appended.

Default value: `go-audit`

##### `output_file_enabled`

Whether to log Go-Audit program output to a logfile.

Valid values: `true`, `false`.

Default value: `false`.

##### `output_file_attempts`

Total number of attempts to write to the logfile before considering giving up.  If a write fails,
Go-Audit will sleep for 1 second before retrying.

Valid values: positive integers

Default value: `2`

##### `output_file_path`

The path to the logfile.

Valid values: any absolute file path.

Default value: `/var/log/go-audit/go-audit.log`.

##### `output_file_mode`

The file mode of the logfile.

Valid values: any valid file mode octal expression, with leading zero.

Default value: `0600`.

##### `output_file_user`, `output_file_group`

The user and group ownership of the logfile.

Valid values: any valid user and group name on the target system.

Default value: `root`.

##### `log_flags`

Control log file line prefixes. Add together constants defined in Golang's `log` module.
https://golang.org/pkg/log/#pkg-constants

Valid values: an integer expressing a combination of flags as defined above. 

Default value: `0` (no line prefixes)

##### `auto_enable_rule`

Manages a special rule in the ruleset, which always appears at the end of the ruleset and is applied
last, regardless of ordering hints given to rules defined by `goaudit::rule` resources.

The rule tells the kernel to enable, disable, or lock the ruleset, and is applied by `auditctl -e`.

When set to `enable`, the last rule in the ruleset will be `-e 1`, which tells the kernel to enable
the flow of audit messages.

When set to `disable`, the last rule in the ruleset will be `-e 0`, which tells the kernel to
disable the flow of audit messages.

When set to `lock`, the last rule in the ruleset will be `-e 2`, which tells the kernel to enable
the flow of audit messages, and prevent any further changes to the ruleset (until the next reboot).

When set to `none`, this rule is not added to the ruleset. Use this setting if you are managing this
property through some other mechanism.

Valid values: `none`, `disable`, `enable`, `lock`

Default value: `enable`

### Defined Types

#### `goaudit::rule`

Adds a rule, or multiple rules in a block, to the Go-Audit configuration. The rules will be applied
to the kernel by Go-Audit on startup via a sequence of calls to the `auditctl` command.

##### `order`

An ordering hint. `goaudit::rule` resources will be sorted by their order before being applied to
the configuration.

Valid values: integers

Default value: `10`

##### `comment`

An optional comment to prepend to the rule(s). If provided, will be rendered in the configuration as
a YAML comment.

##### `content`

A rule expression (string), or an array of rule expressions. Arrays will be rendered in the
configuration in order. See the `auditctl` documentation for valid rule expressions.

#### `goaudit::filter`

Adds a filter to the Go-Audit configuration.

##### `order`

An ordering hint. `goaudit::filter` resources will be sorted by their order before being applied to
the configuration.

Valid values: integers

Default value: `10`

##### `comment`

An optional comment to prepend to the filter(s). If provided, will be rendered in the configuration as
a YAML comment.

##### `syscall`

Required.

The syscall ID of the message group (a single log line from go-audit), to test against the regex

Valid values: Integers. See output of command `ausyscall --dump` for a list.

##### `message_type`

Required.

The message type identifier containing the data to test against the regex.

Valid values: integers. For a list of message types, see
https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/include/uapi/linux/audit.h#L53.

##### `regex`

Required.

The regex to apply to the message text.

